You want to ask a question which you like to ask.
[UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
Sahaja yog [UNCLEAR]
- What is [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR]
- What is.... Are you [UNCLEAR] Hare Krishna?
- because
- I'll talk about Krishna then we'll [UNCLEAR - SOLVE?] the question.
- [UNCLEAR]
- What's it? - You don't go out
- Annh?
- [UNCLEAR]
- What's he saying?
- He wants to ask me a question, Mother because I was doing the program
- You should not be aggressive like that - alright?
- [UNCLEAR]
You can do it later on. What is being so aggressive because you have to call her?
- No, no why have you come here to call your things - you have come here to call
- [UNCLEAR]
- No, that thing is wrong [UNCLEAR - SIT DOWN, SIT DOWN?] - alright? Have some patience.
You see, when you go to other gurus you don't ask any questions - nothing - you go headlong.
You [UNCLEAR - STAND?] on your legs, do what they tell. There's no enquiry before them, not a question, nothing.
Whatever they say, you obey them, pay them money - just obey them blindly.
Whenever you come to Mother please don't try to get this - that's wrong.
- [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR] that's true, I know.
- Why do you want to call her? You have come to call [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR]
- What is he?
- He's probably a sahaja yogi.
- Annh?
- Sahaja yogi
- Haan
- Sahaja means [UNCLEAR]
- He teaches the people [UNCLEAR]
- I never heard there's a foreign
What are you doing [UNCLEAR]? Have you got your? He's [UNCLEAR] nothing wrong. He has his own ideas too.
- [UNCLEAR]
- Alright, don't fight. You see, [UNCLEAR] have started spoiling everybody's mood
You take another hall and hire and give a lecture; That's a better idea
and [UNCLEAR] I'll be very happy if you can do that - alright? Alright, better do it.
This is [UNCLEAR - HOW IT IS SOLVED?] by us. [LAUGHTER]
[UNCLEAR]
[ALL LAUGH]
- He was [UNCLEAR - PUNK?]
- [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
- [UNCLEAR] You can [UNCLEAR]
Forget it, forget it. Let it be. Better sit down all of you. Now, I'll tell you.
One had all types of experiences every next day.
Sahaja yoga has an open door for everyone. All of you can come in.
Some of you, actually, do not deserve even to come but you are allowed to come in.
You do not want your Self-realization but you were here, I don't know for what.
But it's alright - it's a Mother's house - you all could be here
but as a Mother, I have to tell you one thing - a very simple thing
that you must do all justice to yourself.
In all [UNCLEAR - CLEARNESS?] to yourself, you better get your realization.
If you do not get your realization, you'll have lots of problems but [UNCLEAR -SUFFER?] later on
which may come out as anything - physical, emotional, mental, spiritual
but last of all, they'll be sorted out, they'll be sent to Hell.
So I have to request you, that be patient with yourself.
As I love you, you have to love yourself.
I see that beauty, that sparkling beautiful Spirit
which is clouded by your [UNCLEAR - MISJUDGMENT?] to fly.
Enmity, problems but I see that
sparkling spark also.
That's why, I'm extremely patient.
You will know your beauty also if you are little patient with yourself
and try to understand how to be that [UNCLEAR - THAT'S ALL?]
that is your [UNCLEAR - JEWEL OR JOB?], you are lost - you have to find.
That is very important for life; That is the evolutionary process of human-beings
and those who do not accept your Spirit - I do not want to say to frighten you but
only thing is, this is the Last Judgment - you won't have another chance,
so please, try to get your realization established.
If you keep, permit to My lecture, you'll have more knowledge about chakras and things like that.
That is not going to help you neither help Me. I'm not here to show off any knowledge
or to sort of form any [UNCLEAR] or to start any cult or religion or anything like that.
I'm here to give you what you have, just that is hidden from you,
that you have not yet felt - that's what is your own right that is sahaja -
born with you, spontaneous, the living force of Kundalini which is the Holy Ghost
actually reflected within you, has to do it
and that's what is important, absolutely wise,
absolutely logic but we are not yet so equipped
to understand our estimation. We have no self-estimation of any kind,
we are not able to understand what we are. It's better to get your Self-realization
and to understand your own values. This is something so valuable
that no words can really prove it.
Now today, we are yet to be with very interesting - [ASIDE - Is it alright, can you hear Me?] -
very interesting chakra, called as, heart chakra, which is called as Anahata chakra,
though it is not placed on the heart. It is placed
very much behind the sternum bone in the spinal cord. In your childhood
this center manifests. The power in the sternum bone
actually is antibodies. Now this center is governed
by the Goddess, who is called as, Jagdamba - meaning the Mother of the Universe,
who gives us security in the life. She resides in this center
and manifests till the age of twelve years - Her warriors called as antibodies;
Doctors call it as antibodies. After twelve years these antibodies
go into circulation and empty the sternum bone
but whenever there is a problem of insecurity
the sternum bone starts going up and down and you start feeling genuinely ill.
which is a very, very important, extremely important center within us.
If you have less antibodies, then we can develop
lots of problems of insecurity even if we have imaginary
hallucinations or sometimes actual possessions, this center can go out
in a very funny way and you may develop diseases like Asthma [UNCLEAR]
but actually with this central one, the center -
there are three chakras you can see there, so the central one gives you the sense of insecurity
specially to women will cause cancer of the breast.
Breast cancer is caused by insecurity among women. Mostly women
who are insecured do not say that they are insecured.
Supposing the husband is a wayward person
and he is having relations with other women or she is suspicious about the relationship like that
then she may develop this trouble within her and
she may not tell the doctor, doctor would not know and breast cancer can be caused with [UNCLEAR]
First of all, the woman is the mother, mother of your child
and if her security as a mother is challenged, then she develops this
horrible disease called as breast cancer, which is very common these days among women.
Men do not understand that women are very sensitive things.
They are of course extremely evolved, they can bear much more than they can
seldom a woman gets a heart attack. They are quite [UNCLEAR]
but they can't bear the announcements to give them insecurities of this kind.
Now you can understand a woman who is insecured like that. She may not say, she may not complain,
she may not also show it
but the heart there is an insecurity developing which results in the creation of breast cancer.
There are many breast diseases are developed by these and also
some of the lung diseases are also developed with this insecurity.
In addition to that, those people who suffer from cold too much
and those who get exposed to pneumonia
or, you can say, even people who go to closed places like cinemas, those places
where there is not sufficient air for them to breathe, they develop
this trouble in this area very much and more on the
left side of this chakra which is called as the left Anahata.
Now the left anahata is the Mother, is your mother.
If there is a problem with your mother - supposing your mother has died very early in life -
you have had no motherhood in your childhood,
if there has been a problem with your mother, then this left side
chakra catches and it goes hand in hand with heart.
So in this [UNCLEAR] if you get a catch, then you must nourish the left side
chakra which is catching, which can be heart or can be this left side chakra.
So you can ask the question, "Will I know what is the problem with [UNCLEAR]?" If you ask the question, "Are you
suffering from any insecurity from your mother or about your mother,"
and if you find that there is some problem with the mother
[UNCLEAR]
See they are the losers, why should you worry? Now, if there is any destruction
of any such feelings of motherhood within you, then this chakra gets blocked
and you can develop diseases like tuberculosis or could be any such diseases
that has to do with your left hand and also it affects in a way the heart organ.
On the right hand side is a very, very important chakra called as the chakra of the
Shri Ram. Now, Shri Rama was an Incarnation of this Vishnu, the One
who's on the Nabhi chakra, who came as the eighth Incarnation on this earth and -
I'm sorry not eighth, He was the seventh Incarnation and He - there're ten Incarnations
out of which he was the seventh - and he came on this earth and he didn't in any way profess or say
that he was the incarnation of Vishnu. He, that's why he moved from the central path to the right.
He kept himself aware. Now this Shri Rama's center is very important
because Shri Rama was a perfect human-being 'Maryada Purshottam'.
He deal with or we can say he created the boundaries with which a human-being should live
as a king, as a husband, as a father and that's why this is the center of the father.
If you have failed as a father, if your son has [UNCLEAR - NOT GOOD VIEWS?]
for you or maybe, that your father has not been good to you
or if you have done some harm to your child, then this center catches.
Now, there was a boy, who came to Me, quite young and always his center used to catch.
I asked him how did his this center is catching, he said [UNCLEAR] because you have a good father
and everything is alright. Then he confessed to Me that, "Mother, I must confess to you
that I was having a relationship with the woman which he conceived and we
both decided to have an abortion," and that's why his this center was catching.
Now the very age old asthamas could be with this.
Very age old asthamas which people have we have, could be because their father might have died very early in age.
Now such fathers who die very early, he get [UNCLEAR - CHILDREN ARE THEN INSECURE?], so they hover around the children.
If you can tell your father that, "I'm alright,
don't worry about me, you take your birth," you'll be amazed your asthamas can be checked.
We had a Governor of Kashmir, who was a friend of My husband, a very senior man, want to see Me;
In India people have a different style of behavior towards saints.
We never behave [UNCLEAR] as you see here - never. Even the President of India would stand for a saint.
And he was the governor and we were his guests.
After all My husband was an officer much junior [UNCLEAR] but he walked in
to our guest house and he said, "Today I've come to see a saint and not Mrs. Srivastava,"
and he sat down. He said, "I've come to take Your blessings because I'm having asthma for twenty-five years."
I said, "Alright." Then I asked him about his father, "When did his father die?" He said, "About 25 years back.
That time I was very young, not yet employed, my father was very much worried about me and he died."
I said, "Alright, will you tell your father that you take your birth again?"
[UNCLEAR]
and he said, "Alright," because he was suffering too much.
Since that day he never got an attack from asthma - is a fact. It's quite simple to cure
anorexia - another disease that you have. [UNCLEAR] but when I tell you about this [UNCLEAR]
Anorexia is also caused by emotional disturbance.
For example, a girl's father dies and she cannot [UNCLEAR]
and she feels for the father and the father also feels for her and this mutual feeling brings
the father, as a spirit, around her and then she cannot eat. You see, she feels extremely restless carrying on with that feeling.
She just allows him, whatever she may try she cannot eat. In London, one doctor
once experimented on this and he said, "Alright, we'll do the last rites of your father." Just imagine, [UNCLEAR]
He said, "Let's try," and she started weeping. In the same way, if you can tell your father that, "I'm alright."
When you tell him to do some work, they start crying because it is too much to say to your father
who was so close to you, suddenly dies. You may feel very emotional about it but one can try it out
and save it this sick center. Asthma, many times, can be cured by this
but there can be a combination of Asthma which I called, why I've never told you before - the granthi.
When the two centers meet there are auras of every chakra
and when they meet a granthi is formed; Granthi means a knot. A knot is formed and when the knot is formed,
when you take the name of a deity, you have to take the name in such a manner that you put those two deities together.
Today I had a boy who had very bad bronchial asthma and they did not know what is the reason for it.
When we just checked we found that Agnya, this chakra and the [UNCLEAR - LUNGS?] part,
when we put them together and gave it a bandhan, it got [UNCLEAR].
When we tried on both the chakras, it was better because if you treat one, the disease goes to another.
I'm amazed that you brought your attention to another it transforms,
so it is better to attack both of them together - is the method which they keep, by which you can use after realization.
All these tricks are to be learnt and these granthis can be completely opened out and you can really
cure the person of these, so called, physical problems which are really emotional.
In a society where people do not understand how human-beings are sensitive, how they are delicate
how they are to be treated and that they are the most sacred things,
people become extremely aggressive and their aggression can be very subtle, can be very untrue;
We have to be extremely beautiful but
can be very injurious and can be very, very, I would say, extremely
disturbing. So many aggressive characters of women and men have destroyed their children,
they have destroyed themselves. One has to understand that all such aggressions end up with the problems in the society.
Insecurities lead to problems and problems.
Like the wife has a insecurity to the husband. Now if husband has the insecurity of the woman
then what happens, they go into this funny relationships with men.
When they find a woman also untrusted, so
dominating, then they try to have these funny relations just as you see.
If they meet women who are kind to them
and do not try to dominate too much, they sometimes [UNCLEAR] in the name of security also, very much,
so the man can develop in his own way as a man and a woman can develop in his own way,
in her own way as a woman but when they try to be [UNCLEAR] then the insecurities develop
and that's how we have so many complications which are psychological in nature.
This was discussed by Freud, to begin with but as I said it was very half-baked.
He could not see through that there is not only the psyche that we have
we have also the another side which is called as ego within us. So he said you better de-condition
yourself. There's no end to it and once you start de-conditioning yourself - many gurus are doing like this -
they say, "You must de-condition yourself." By de-conditioning yourself
you do not know that you really develop your ego which is no way to help you to
[UNCLEAR] or to [UNCLEAR] This ego will last
doesn't help us because it may give you success, it can give you lots of things -
it troubles others. Like Hitler never thought how he would torture the other men.
And if you get a superego, then you get pain, you don't [UNCLEAR - LIKE?] say you want to [UNCLEAR - GIVE IT UP?]
but if you want a ego, you just enjoy [UNCLEAR]; Now what is that nicely?
This 'I' with a [UNCLEAR]. Now when the realization takes place,
when the Kundalini rises, it rises in the center and the
power of Kundalini spreads on the sides. In the center is the power of the autonomous
and once you know that the Mother of the Universe is your mother also -
it's not the knowledge rationally but it happens within you - so you feel that security within you.
All your promotional things [UNCLEAR] and you become
really stand as [UNCLEAR - SPEAKING TO?] yourself and you start feeling yourself
and staying with yourself.You feel your own worth and your own importance
as a human-being, as a sahaja yogi, as a realized soul.
Then you check your own [UNCLEAR], you are not now fearless but fear of the unknown goes away.
You become absolutely in the center - neither you aggress nor you take aggression.
It's a very beautiful relationship that exists.
By chance if somebody tries to aggress you, you can see the drama. If somebody tries to be extremely
humble with you, you see the drama. The whole thing comes to you as a drama, you're never disturbed with all these things
and you must know that these ups and downs are always there to create a variety.
This center is the most important center from one point of view.
That all our emotional problems come from this center and the way we treat the chakras,
the way you can handle each other
- we are not at all aware that human-beings are even delicate,
that the delicateness flower like this
is extremely there.
Whatever you try to do to a human-being, know he has a very deep root.
These roots as a result of bearing up become big to horrible
weapons within us and when you come across somebody whom you can dominate and trouble, you start
hurting that person. You use hurting language hurting others.
You cannot enjoy another person but when realization takes place,
you become so fruitful that you enjoy the security of another person.
After realization, a person who is realized, never possesses because
a person who is realized has felt the freedom and has divided the freedom so he never tries to dominate another person.
This is a very, very great disadvantage in sahaja yog
that people who are [UNCLEAR] are very nasty, they can be horrible, they are very troublesome
and sometimes they really ruin themselves but because those who are realized souls
cannot dominate them, they just watch and see who are dominating. If they could do it, immediately such a person will feel that
hundreds of slaps coming up from waves but
we face those who are real today, also so many of them, and watching you and are sitting down here. I also
see what's happening but they watch and see what others are doing, what harm they are doing
and how they are pulling, they just note it down. Of course, this is not so true,
that those which are bringing hurdles and inconvenience in the work of God
ultimately are taken away from the Grace of God. God is very forgiving, no doubt, He forgives
first mistake [UNCLEAR] but after some time He also punishes you.
He punishes you so badly that you are amazed how He has [UNCLEAR] you.
This center, to keep it clean and nice,
one thing you must know, that there is nothing to fear. God Almighty who has created you,
He's so powerful that there is nothing to fear.
23rd Psalm which we read [UNCLEAR] what He says.
I would say, that is the mantra for this center.
There is nothing to fear in this world but actually what happens,
that if we are egoistical, we are frightened because we know we are egoistical
and somebody is going to hurt us. It is most [UNCLEAR] that kind of a fear comes in
that we have done some harm so we are frightened that this is going to happen.
Moreover, when you indulge into things like
[UNCLEAR]  or strong [UNCLEAR] as you call them [UNCLEAR] and drugs and things
they take you to superego. The superego takes you to Collective Subconscious
and you get attacked by the Collective Subconscious on and when you are attacked then
you get a very different personality which is [UNCLEAR], who doesn't want to say anything, which keeps quiet,
which runs away, [UNCLEAR] shouts and such people are very depressive.
They become absolutely depressing, extremely depressed
and sometimes they lose their jobs, they cannot work, they cannot pay attention.
These people have to then go to the right side
to give a balance [UNCLEAR] - it's to raise the right side of his being.
To give them a balance we have to raise the right side, not the left side.
And once you raise the right side, you must know you are raising Shri Ram.
I do not know if you have read the life of Shri Ram, who was the [UNCLEAR] king
and he sacrificed his own wife just to keep the public opinion alright.
That was the greatest [UNCLEAR] thing but you have seen people
that for their own children they sacrifice the whole country.
There are people who sacrificed their whole country for their wives
while he's the man who sacrificed his wife for the whole country and the whole story is so good to know
that the wife had to go and deliver the children in a ashram of a
very big saint known as Valmiki. Now these two children were born
and when Rama came to call her she went to and disappeared into the Mother Earth.
After that it is said, these two children who were Luv and Kush
they went [UNCLEAR] two ends of a [UNCLEAR] because they were kids
They decided not to stay in India that can the Himalayas [UNCLEAR]
and they decided to disappear in the North. So Luv went towards the [UNCLEAR] side and Kush went
to the left side. The left side was China that's why the Russians are called as 'Slav' -
Luv becomes 'Slav' and Chinese are called as [UNCLEAR]
Better go and tell them that the descendants of two twin brothers who were children
of Sitaji and why should they fight among themselves. Chinese
and Russian people, they're Slavs and [UNCLEAR]
Rama's kingdom was the kingdom of great harmony
and great [UNCLEAR]. A king has to be a benevolent king.
He has not to use his power to destroy or to make people insecure.
If you make even one person insecured, it is sin and a king can make
thousands of people insecured by his terrorism or his absurd ideas about [UNCLEAR]
Rama's life was a message, was so ideal. Whatever problem he had, he used to call
his ministers and would talk to them, ask them what are the problems
and then he would tell them, "Alright, if you think these are the problems then,"
he would say that, "It is better to go to some saint and ask for their advice."
And all his ministers had to go to some saint and ask their advice [UNCLEAR].
Saints have the same opinion, all of them, on any country because they are [UNCLEAR] vibrated awareness.
In vibratory awareness there's only Absolute Truth and that's how
he saw to it that through these saints he could manage them to lead a life of complete harmony
and understanding. His own life He spent like a message
He would walk without shoes and he sacrificed everything that is meant for [UNCLEAR]
And in the end he wanted to have a real faith for [UNCLEAR]
of Ashwamedha yagya [UNCLEAR] is a [UNCLEAR] in which you put a horse
and you follow the horse and wherever the horse goes, you fight the folks which are trying to capture it..
And those horses, whichever country they went, they were not captured,
were regarded as the part of the Kingdom of Shri Rama. So this horse went
to many countries and there at that time they had to do a great [UNCLEAR] worship
of the fire. While he had no wife alongside the day and he said,
"I will not have this, if I have to have my wife, I cannot have."
So the people said that, "If you can make a statue of your wife, we can have this
whole thing done and the puja can be performed." So he made a golden image of Sitaji
and tried the worshipping done.
It is hard to get a husband of Rama's style; He's an ideal husband.
Such a loving husband, He even in  separation, He never thought of any other woman
just of his wife. He enjoyed the separation of his wife and lead a
life of a sage. His wife too, so dedicated to him,
was so upset, She thinks that He's going to have this yagya, that He may get married again - She was jealous
but then she discovered that He made a beautiful image of Her.
Sometimes, when they are women, they are jealous but jealousy is not such a bad thing.
Jealousy is the controlling factor by which men or women can control the licentiouness
of each other. Jealousy is God's gift but it should not go too far.
It should be open jealousy and it should be enjoyed. It is in lots of poems of Krishna
and Rama - you will hear the jealousy of their wives
and how once Radha was so jealous of the flute
that Krishna used to use, that She asked Him,
"What do You mean by holding this flute all the time to Your lips? What is so special about her?"
So Krishna said, "Alright, if You are so jealous, go and ask Her. [UNCLEAR - ONLY?] ask the flute."
So she went to the flute and She said, "What is so special about this, how you are all the time
uh.. at the lips of My beloved?" She said, "See [UNCLEAR] this."
Something very simple and she smiled. She said, "What is your speciality, you have to tell?"
She said, "My speciality is that I have no speciality. I've become a hollow person.
He flows through me and melody is created and people say that
'Is the flute that is playing.' It's Krishna who's playing, I just see the flow of that.
That flow of that energy that you people use it, I see that and I smile at people
who say that [UNCLEAR]. I've become [UNCLEAR], I've become a hollow personality."
This is what one of the beautiful stories of jealousy is.
So, I would not say that jealousy of the worst type, where you may [UNCLEAR] husband is
but a sweet jealousy is a very nice thing and a sweet teasing is also very nice thing.
Actually in relationship, we have to develop very sweet uh.. connections with each other.
Like a, today I was talking to somebody who's brother-in-law is very hot-tempered or something like that and all that.
I said, "Very good idea. So you are the one who can take it down his temper because you are his brother -in-law."
Said, "How?" I said, "You should teach them sometimes and take his side and do all these tricks and you'll see how he'll manage."
That's a very good relationship but this training you do not have in the Western life
While we have quite a lot because we live in a joint family, so we know what is our relationship and how to do
and how to enjoy each other and how to make fun of these small, small things so we are always laughing and enjoying ourselves,
our relationships instead of just finding faults, "She came very late, she banged the door so loudly,
she should have known to sleep on here, why didn't she do that," - all these [UNCLEAR]
This is how we all can live together if you see to the sweet things but if you go too much [UNCLEAR] meticulous things
and to all these nonsensical problems that you have, it is going to be a headache
What you need, these small, small things sponsor relationships.
Now the Mother of the Universe is the one that
is [UNCLEAR - NAMED?] with one thousand names; She has one thousand names
and She has got two centers on to which She acts - on the right side is called as the Shri Chakra
on the left side is called as the Lalita Chakra and the book that has one thousand names is called as Lalita Sahastranama.
All these thousand names, can imagine, how many powers She has - She has thousand hands
and with these thousand hands She looks after. So what is there to be afraid of?
When there is Yogmaya, who is so powerful and She has thousand powers
what is there to be afraid of and when She loves you so much? On one side She has the
light on the side of a child. Who can tell you walk so quietly,
so nicely without getting disturbed at all. I can see, that it is She who is going to be [UNCLEAR - WORKING?]
who act. Only thing, they must feel Her presence in your chakra and establish Her there.
This is what is the central chakra is very important within us.
[ASIDE - Should I (UNCLEAR)? Should we?]
While I'm not saying, there is one chakra more.
First of all, before doing Vishuddhi, I've to tell you the imbalances of this chakra, first of all
and then you'll understand what is to be done. The imbalances that come
in this chakras, first of all, is when you are extremely emotional.
Very emotional people there are. At the slightest they'll cry, they're very easily [UNCLEAR] out but whatever you may say, first thing you do is
to use your water power and upset everyone; You see, the children are upset, the husband is upset with your water power
and the once it starts, it doesn't stop. Emotional people, when they go too much with their emotional behaviour
they do not get epileptic so much as they get, what you call hysteric
and this hysteria spreads from one to another because people see
that those who are distressed are affected with their hysteria. Once they become hysteric, other people start thinking, "Oh, God,
just look at her!" She's hysteric so everybody going to her, is kind to her and that is how she also picks up
from another hysteric woman and starts being hysteric but actually, it is a possession that comes to you and you become hysteric.
Now, this hysteria is to treated in a very simple way.
First of all, she is to be told that, "We don't believe in hysteria, [UNCLEAR],
we are not bothered. You have your hysteria well it is not good for us." It is to be neglected. If you neglect such a person
will be much better or if she shouts or screams anything, you lock her up in the house
you go out and come back. You'll find, after some time she'll not have hysterias.
But if it really due to some possession, then you have to give her a regular treatment of sahaja yoga
by which she can remove the possession. So that there are two types of hysterics
one is the real - when a person is really caught up and is
possessed and is feeling oppressed and the another kind is the one which is just a show
because people are there, who are insincere type and they try to show off.
You see, like many you'll find. Now the gentleman here was just nothing but a show off.
There was no need for him to be so upset, nobody said anything to him in particular, nothing was wrong,
he's not here to fight with Me - nothing - but he's just a show off. And this
kind of a quality comes in when you are a show off, so it's best is, to show to such a person that you do not care for the show off.
Once you do that, you'll be amazed that it works out wonders and people
who are suffering from all these troubles get cured but there are people who are
really sick and hard to find some - a very simple method. That a person
who is suffering from this kind of a show off thing, if you put anything obnoxious near the nose of such a person
he just forgets, he can't bear it, you see. He forgets about his
uh.. tantrums. All these tantrums are just forgotten. So in India, is a very funny thing they do
is to rub your shoe and put it to the nose of the person
and can put anything else. Also sometimes they put a little onion which is not [UNCLEAR] to the nose of the person
and then the person just becomes quite normal. But if it is a real,
real hysteric, you see, then of course, you have to get it treated by sahaja yoga.
I've known one lady was going to some guru who really raped her
and she didn't know she was raped but sort of in unconscious state and she was thinking that she was raped and all that
and she became pregnant and then she had to get her abortion and all that - horrible fellow he was!
He's still going very strong making lots of money and this woman since then became hysteric sort
and she used to get into terrible hysteria so much so that when her husband had to take her to Scotland then [UNCLEAR]
boarding house where he was looking after, she used to scream like mad
and she used to go into a tantrum where her neck would go on one side and her hands would go like that; It was terrible.
Worse that her epileptic mood would go on for 3-4 hours. Thank God she came to sahaja yoga and she got cured.
- What are you doing?
- I'm drawing [UNCLEAR]
- Why don't you give an extraordinary affair? I'm here to make you extraordinary.
[UNCLEAR]
Oh, it's alright but I think you better be extraordinary so I also can be
when I... alright? Alright, finish it soon and you better have it.
Now, this one is
one of the hysterias, as I told you, on the left hand side and a right hand side, when a person is, say, in the power, he becomes the king
and he starts shouting out - he's not [UNCLEAR], he's a father.
He has to behave like a father and a father has to sacrifice.
He has to go on sacrificing for his children. He has to give love to his children.
Now, a father will never have a [UNCLEAR - SALARY?] for car
and a beautiful house and the children starving.
A, any king or any woman who does that, is not a father.
If he is the father, then he is the benevolent king and such a king, we should all pray that we should have, within ourselves.
Is important that we should have such a king who sacrifices everything for the sake of
his subjects and what a character!
A king, who has a licentious life, who kills seven wives and does all such nonsensical things
how can you, because unless and until you have a
have a character of your own, you have your own principles, unless and until you are an ideal king,
how can you rule people and what can you give them except for licentiousness and permissiveness.
I was surprised that, now in England all of them are trying to follow this king who kills seven wives.
You see, either the wives are killing the husbands and the husbands are killing the wives and once I asked, "Why do you do like this?"
"Our kings did it and now we are democratic, so we can also do it." - they have all become kings now.
If you have to become a king, you have to be a king like Rama who loves his wife,
cared for [UNCLEAR], above all, His care for His people, His subjects;
Nothing was more important than the people whom He governed - that is what it is.
But when this happens, you'll find the wives had escorted in most of the [UNCLEAR], like his son
they always gets caught up because they think, "Oh, we're great!" You see, their nose is up like that,
they go in a big car, they have no time to look at any one - they're supposed to be public servants
but they behave as if they are the owners of public properties and public.
Specially in developing countries like India, they indulge into horrible things like bribery, corruption and all those things
and are least bothered about every corruption leads to [UNCLEAR] damage
because they do not believe, that God Almighty the Great, is our Father
and when our Father is there, so great, He's going to look after us.
Why should we do all these injurious things to ourselves. One [UNCLEAR - MALADY?] can kill thousands of people.
If a person takes a bribe while building a bridge, the bridge is weak
and when the car is passing over it, one, ten, hundred, thousand people can be killed.
For taking a little money how much we do harm to others.
Now, one side is the sin against the father - that not to believe
that he looks after our yoga and  kshema, both, He's the one
who looks after all our material well-being. For that we should love [UNCLEAR] at least
that is all the developing countries [UNCLEAR - ITSELF?].
The countries who are developed, who have money, who do not have insecurities from money -
what they are doing? They are having the another side - is the sin against the mother.
They are intruding the security of the family while making the wives
suffer of the insecurity or making the husband suffer of the insecurity,
making the children suffer of the insecurity; The whole places security is insecure.
The women also have seen, when they're divorced, they start doing very dirty things, filthy.
They become prostitutes - actually they are prostitutes. Yes, what is the difference
between the good woman and a prostitute is this much today, that one does it with willingness and the other says that she doesn't do with willingness.
Whatever you may call it, it's a very wrong thing and for a woman, it's killing; It's absolutely killing
because woman's chastity keeps the whole earth moving. Her chastity is the most important thing.
If a woman doesn't have a chastity, then I don't know what's going to happen to that earthly, that earth - it's horrible.
All kinds of [UNCLEAR] takes place, the Mother Earth is accidently rolling
with agony. She can't bear her daughters being slaughtered like this
for the sake of emotional blackmail or some sort of a thing like this.
Women must understand they owe a responsibility to the whole society.
If men are responsible for economics and politics, women are responsible for social life.
They have to get, they have to stand
on their own feet and know that they are women and their chastity is the most precious thing.
Now, in a country like India, where [UNCLEAR] in poverty, but women's chastity is the fulfilment
extremely [UNCLEAR], I mean, you can't think of what you have even.
In the olden days, we had a Muslim queen. Her name was Noor Jahan. She was first an ordinary woman
and she went to the king's palace and met
Jahangir, who was a prince and she was a very beautiful and innocent girl and he fell in love with her and he wanted to marry her
but the king didn't like. He said, "No, she must be from a royal family."
He married her to one Shera Afghan of Bengal and sent her. This lady
became a devoted wife to her husband and lived very happily.
But when Akbar died, this, this Salim her, I should say, her lover
became the king called as Jahangir and by mistake her
husband was killed by the armies of Jahangir and this upset her very much.
Then she was brought to Delhi and she went and told Jahangir
that she cannot have him."You have killed my husband, I'll never see your face, you cannot touch me."
He was the Emperor of India.
This woman said, "You dare not touch me, I've nothing to..."  - see the character of the woman.
And then he became very sick. He was also a very good husband and a lover, I should say.
Became very sick, he couldn't live without her and the mother was
a lady called as Jodhabai - she was a Hindu lady whom Akbar had married, so
Jodhabai, mother was very sorry for the son and when the doctor said that,
"This girl has to be brought today otherwise this fellow is going to die perhaps,"
so he said, "You must arrange somehow." So this queen, the mother queen, went as an ordinary maid-servant
to this girl and worked with her as a maid-servant.
So this girl was sick and she said, "What do you want?" She said, "Will you give me if I ask for it?" She said, "Yes, if I can give you, I will give you."
So he asked, she, this old lady asked her, "Will you marry my son?"
She was willing to marry the son of a maid-servant but was not willing to marry this Emperor,
whom she had loved for some more time with the idea that she had killed the husband
and when, when she discovered that the son was nobody else but Jahangir
and she was married to him and she became a very brave queen, Noor Jahan; Noor Jahan means the light of the world.
Like that, we have had many, many stories in India because the character of a woman [UNCLEAR - SHINES?]
and such a power of [UNCLEAR] that even Krishna and Rama
and the greatest of greatest people were afraid of such women who had [UNCLEAR].
If you have to have real powers, then you should be really dedicated and very pure chaste women.
You'll be amazed, every word you say will become and you'll be such a powerful woman that nobody
can even touch you. It's a tremendous power of which I'll give you one another example
how the women of India behave towards  their chastity.
Uh.. we had a lady called Padmini, very beautiful queen and once uh..
a king, a emperor or something, he heard - not yet an emperor but he was trying to make [UNCLEAR - HIM ONE?] -
he heard about the beauty and he said that, "Oh, I must see this lady
otherwise if she does not agree, I will attack."
So all the people said, "No, we'll not allow our queen to be demonstrated like that."
So she said, "Alright, I don't want my country to be attacked, so it's alright, he can see me in a mirror, doesn't matter."
So she stood in a mirror and he saw her and then he again became very mad after her. He said, "No, I must have her as my wife."
And he came with all his army and surrounded their fort
and sent word that, "You must send the queen." But this was too much for Indian men
to send their queen to be killed. Imagine the seven queens killed in England, imagine!
What a story it is! Now they would not accept that so, they said, "Alright, we are sending the queen,"
and they got this palanquins and four people with the palanquin and inside there was one another
soldier sitting in with all the swords and all the guns and all that. Like that, they sent hundred palanquins saying that, "These are the maids
of the queen, that are going," and the king was in the first palanquin,
and they said, "We are going to fight these people. In case we die then we will know because that there will be no fire with us.
If there is a fire then we want that we should  know that we have died."
And then these people went to fight and each one of them was killed -
there was no fire. These women made a fire and climbed over it
and all of them burnt themselves. They would not allow their chastities to be touched by men.
We may say, you so wish you were like that but today we have got that - they are so gracious
to have died for their chastity; It's such a great martyrdom for us to see how these women have killed themselves.
There are many stories like this - even the wife of Ravana, who was killed by Rama, was like that
which I'll be telling you later on sometimes. That story is also very interesting but that is what it is
but we have lost all that, somehow we have lost it.
I don't know how we have lost it but we have lost it - it's a very sad thing. Very sad
that we have lost such a precious thing that we have. With realization, you get it back.
You get back your sense of decency, your sense of chastity.
Like, if I'm on the street, people are kissing each other, hugging each other. I mean, these are
things to be done in the bedroom, not there, you see, it's so ugly to do it like this, embarrassing everyone.
They'll be going on the escalator - that's the only time they can kiss  otherwise there's no other time; They must stick on to each other all the time.
And if you ask them where are they going - they are going for a divorce case.[LAUGHTER]
And it's very indecent to be so much showing off your relationship with your husband - there's no need.
You see, there's no need, all the time, to touch him and what's the need?
It looks so indecent; I don't understand that there is any need if there is love. There's more love
then you never do that, actually. Uh.. you'll be amazed that Indian women when they see their husband,
they may not even raise their eyes and you make out why because she doesn't even raise her eye but she knows in her heart and heart
that her lover, her husband is so near. There's no need to say that; It's so beautiful, it is so much
loving that husband just looks at the girl and he knows that's my bride is there
and he just shakes his head and she also. It's so beautiful while this vulgar expression
and this time you have to think, it's ridiculous sometimes the way people go on. We are making ourselves very cheap.
In our own estimation we should stand into great [UNCLEAR] of our shape and our understanding
that we are human-beings - even animals, some of them, are ashamed of these things and how can we go about with this kind of things.
Very wrong ideas have come into us, like women must show their body - why? What is the need for women to show their body?
It's a very compulsion out of women, they must show their body - it's absurd, I mean, to us it's a priority
that the men, doesn't matter because they have nothing to hide so, why should
they every time they meet a man they need to button up his clothes and a woman will open her body. What is this?
I can't understand that a woman, in her modesty and her chastity, should know the value of her private
life and her privacy. She must respect. The way she behaved, the way, she's become shameless, absolutely shameless
and then [UNCLEAR] there was a big
movement that you shouldn't even wear under, undershirts for women or something like that
and they developed all these troubles of the breast cancer.
They developed with that; Men should also wear undershirts not talk of the women but
men should wear just for the absorption of, what you can say the prespiration of but women
for their chastity also because they expose themselves and that's the chakra of shyness, is the chakra of modesty,
is the chakra of your chastity and you expose it? - that's not the way it should be. Only your child should be able to see that, nobody else is allowed.
That's [UNCLEAR] you will be childless. You will see half of your spirit will go
if you dress up properly in a proper way, in modesty. Nobody [UNCLEAR - DOES THAT?]
The way you walk, the way you behave on the streets, I mean, there has to be a [UNCLEAR] - what else? You created this,
I tell you, the women created this, it's not that the man but the way women are dressed,
the way ugly they are - man feels excited, what can he do?
They have to behave themselves, they have to do in  such a way that they do not distract men so much.
All the time trying to attract men is a [UNCLEAR] thing.
Like one American woman was said that, "Indian women are...." I said that, "Alright, to one husband only.
We are not bothered about other husbands. We are not all the time worried about figures, this, that to attract all the men of the world.
Only one husband is Shri Ram is very...... distract our minds and they respect
[UNCLEAR] maybe husband as someone. Maybe a man [UNCLEAR] it's [UNCLEAR]
to play with the emotions of another man who is .... Whatever is ours we enjoy.
..... enjoy somebody else's thing - why you do that?
By doing that, you create such a lot of insecurity in such a lot of people
and this is what they have to understand. Do not lay your hands on the other families, keep them off.
It's worse than stealing all their families, everything together.
Allow people to [UNCLEAR] and make marriages successful.
I've seen people flirting about with [UNCLEAR] - shameful!
I've seen that and I feel so much shocked. What must be the curses of God for such people
who have no sympathy, no desire, no understanding
as to what the husband would be feeling of a whore?
All of us must know, this hurts us the most.
This center hurts anyone the most.
Nothing can be more hurting than this [UNCLEAR]. If you take our something, doesn't matter
but you deceive someone and in love everything is fair according to the modern science.
You hurt anyone, you do anything, you'll be amazed - now I had a disciple who was 26 years of age
and he had a friend who was 24, mother was about 45, 46 maybe;
The friend went with this boy to his house and the lady went away with this 24 year old
What a problem it is! Nonsense!
And then the son came to Me and told Me, "Mother, this is what has happened, what should I do?" I said, " Go and [UNCLEAR]."
She was so shameless. She started telling Me, "How nice that boy is, he's so interesting, this, that."
I said, "Have you forgotten you have two daughters also."
She said, "No, not I've not forgotten that. I will [UNCLEAR - MEET THEM?]." I said, "Nobody should meet you."
Then she brought out all the case, everything, the house was sold - poor daughters are, they have no place to go to, they are in our ashram.
The father has become mad sort of person and she doesn't mind she's [UNCLEAR] all of them and [UNCLEAR - STIGMA?]
and the boy feels so heated up, he's so angry
and this foolish woman thinks that she's such a bride!
How many people [UNCLEAR]. They destroy this life, destroy that life. What are we doing?
We're destroying ourselves. You can rationalize it, you can say it is alright
but it is murder, it is murder. Murder of not one one person but of many.
With this, I think, today I'll finish. Tomorrow I'll [UNCLEAR - BE OR DEAL?] with Krishna because the mood is different today.
For Krishna you have to have very playful mood which we'll use. Tomorrow we'll have a nice time with Shri Krishna and Christ.
You'll be a master when I'll speak to you day after tomorrow and, I'm sure, you'll be able to do much better.
I'm sorry, I had to say these things to you because in India people are [UNCLEAR] stealing, bribing, this, that nonsense
once they grow. We have got money now, now at least enjoy each other, do not destroy each other.
You see, any husband you have got, just try not to [UNCLEAR] in this lifetime,
any woman you have got, try [UNCLEAR] in this lifetime - please.
At least that type of a person won't be there next life - properly.
So stop it. Why are you like? If you have married, it's alright,
work it out, be comfortable with each other, be generous, be sweet,
look after each other. Do not destroy your lives. Your people suffer from such horrible
hallucinations and things, if you treat them like this. In America I met a child of eight years; Eight years child
and his mother told Me, "Mother, he has taken to drugs." I said, What! eight year old child has taken to drugs?"
She said, "Yes, he takes drugs," and that child I just took that child and hugged him
and loved him and kissed him. I said, "What have you been doing to yourself?"
He said, "All the time my father, mother - they are quarrelling, this is uh..
another father has come, he doesn't like me - he has more children, this, that. I don't like that father [UNCLEAR]
Then I kissed him and kissed him and kissed him. Then he [UNCLEAR] very happy and he started feeling My softness [UNCLEAR] -
then he started crying. He said, "Do You know Mother, my mother has never hugged me like this,
has never kissed me. She had no time because all the time she was trying to be with my father
and my father was trying to be with her. She had no love to kiss me like that."
I asked her and she told Me, "Oh God, I will never forgive me if I touch a eight year old boy like this."
This is Mr. Paul [LAUGHTER]
I mean, even one a person, who is 65 year old in India
he doesn't mind getting into mother's bedroom, behaving like a little child, just taking her blessings
[UNCLEAR - I MEAN?] it's nothing regarded as, never even comes to our [UNCLEAR]
You see, My daughters are very big, about 35 years. She sees, when My husband is there, both of them will sleep
and say, "Daddy, now we are not liking to go out of this." Nobody feels anything. Even My son-in-law will be there - everybody.
I mean, it's so clear, it's so [UNCLEAR]. Seems our brains have been ruling our hearts
Clear your hearts, clean your hearts. Don't listen to these horrible psychologists;
See, they are pathological cases. We are [UNCLEAR], don't listen to them, don't develop guilts for nothing at all.
Why are you so much obedient to them, I don't know.
Your Christ will be alive, you are the God man and one of the thing is love and wisdom.
Isn't it? I think, this Freud never saw;
This is what it is. We have [UNCLEAR - BASED?] ugliness out of all that is [UNCLEAR]
We have created horror out of our security.
You have created destruction out of all the constructed beautiful things. This is what you have done so
from today, build up your hearts sometime, build up your mother and know
that we have to be beautiful, decent people. May God bless you!
Tomorrow I'm not in India but day after tomorrow,
I'll be free to have [UNCLEAR]. Thank you very much! Should we have meditation now?
[UNCLEAR] into meditation should [UNCLEAR]
For meditation, one has to know
that it is the Kundalini which clears you.
She's the one who clears you. Now the mantras
on the awakening of the deities helps you to expand the area of the chakras
which you can learn, later on, how to do but just now let us see.
We can say, that there is no need to fear.
There is no need to fear at all when the Mother, who is the Mother of the Universe
is looking after us. Just you say that and this center will open out and the Kundalini will rush through.
Please put your both the hands towards Me, just like this. Stretch them a little, just stretch them.
Close your eyes, close.
[SHREE MATAJI BLOWS INTO THE MIKE]
We have closed the air-conditioner.
If you are getting the breeze, you should not think it's coming
now from Me and also from your head.
You can feel it coming out of your head. Put your right hand towards Me and feel it on your head.
Now you can meditate.
Now put both your hands towards Me and just for [UNCLEAR - FEW MINUTES?] close your eyes.
Close your eyes, please close your eyes.
Establish your chakra, establish your chakra of the heart
by paying attention there and say that, "Mother, I want to feel You."
I fear not, I don't fear
or say,
"I feel secured within myself."
Hmm, then it is better.
Your left side is weaker - put your left hand towards Me
and right hand on the heart center, on the heart center, in the center.